# TemplarOrder

The Knights of the Temple, after the fall of Acre, the last Christian stronghold in the Levant, returned to the West. Houses of this order had accumulated various riches; being administrators of funds destined for the Crusades, they became the first "bankers" to the kings and perhaps one of the greatest financial powers of the Middle Ages.

Philip IV of France had just won a duel between civil and ecclesiastical powers, and found himself indebted, with the numerous expenses that he made and that was possible thanks to the loans that the Templar Order granted him. Unable to pay the excessive debt, he put into practice a plan to extinguish the Order and thus collect for himself all the treasures and goods that that rich religious Order had accumulated early on. Thus, its chancellor, William de Nogaret, drew up all the charges and assigned them various crimes. On October 13, 1307, Philip arrested a large part of the Knights Templar. To get the Church's support, he found a way to elevate someone he trusted to the pontifical office: Bertrand de Got, who, with the name of Clement V, becomes the first Pope to sit in Avignon, to be more maneuverable and available to help Philip, and who would create a dispute over who was the real Pope. Clement thus orders all the kingdoms where Templars reside to confiscate their property and sentence each of their members to death.

Denis receives this order, and like the other kingdoms, he had to obey: his agents occupied the Templar strongholds, but gave them time to escape. In 1309, Denis officially confiscated his property, returning all these towns and castles to the Crown. The peninsular monarchs had obtained an exception to the bull which obliged all Templar goods to be given to the Hospitaller Order. This was confirmed by a convention that Denis signed with Ferdinand IV of Castile, which obliged each of the countries to secure for themselves the goods of the Templars and also ensured an alliance of mutual assistance.

In 1319, Denis obtained from Pope John XXII the bull Ad and ex quibus, in which the Order of Christ was created and to which all the patrimony and also several of the members of the extinct Templar Order were transferred. The Castle of Castro Marim was designated as the headquarters, thus creating the first Portuguese military order, which even supported the Portuguese knights of the Order of Santiago in their struggle to separate from their Castilian master. The Order of Santiago would form a Portuguese branch.
